readme.md, before:

# ```$_Hacks```

dead simple but flexible restful api framework, <br/>
for modern back-end web development of your dreams <br/>

## $ Features
### Restful api all the things !
1. [what is rest ?](http://www.restapitutorial.com/lessons/whatisrest.html)
2. **how hacks do ?** <br>
each time you run ***hack generate -api resources***, this is going to implement a full crud restful api for resources as well as search and pagination stuff!
thanks to [pony orm](https://github.com/ponyorm/pony) flexible **Set** syntax, you can easily add one-to-many(many-to-many) relationships and hacks will **automatically generate relationship apis between resources**!

### Real time back-end service via websocket

### Flexible api configuration

### Hacking on top of flask
+ [flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) is a microframework for Python based on Werkzeug, Jinja 2 and good intentions. <br/>
well, hacks is built on top of flask! so feel free to use any great flask extensions !

### Great DRY idea

### Convention over configuration

<hr>
## $ Get Start
### New a project
<code>$ hack new demoAPI</code>

### Generate restful api
<code>$ hack generate api users</code>

### Videos
+ [hacks framework](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aimpIJjk824)

<hr>
## $ Enjoy Your API:)
(example for users resource)
### Start

    $ hack boot

recommended [postman app](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/postman/fhbjgbiflinjbdggehcddcbncdddomop) do api development<br/>

### Read
**GET**

+ <code>http://localhost:5486/api/users/</code>
+ ```http://localhost:5486/api/users/<int:id>```

### Create
**POST** <code>http://localhost:5486/api/users/</code>

    {
        "name": "neo1218"
    }


### Update
**PATCH** ```http://localhost:5486/api/users/<int:id>/``` <br/>
***update a field:***

    { "name": "substack" }

### Delete
***delete a user*** <br/>
**DELETE** ```http://localhost:5486/api/users/<int:id>/``` <br/>

### Pagination
pagination setting at ```apis/configs/usersConfig.py``` <br/>
**GET** ```http://localhost:5486/api/users/?page=2```

### Search
**GET** ```http://localhost:5486/api/users/?<field1>=<value1>&<field2>=<field2>```

<hr>
## $ Hack Your API
you can custom your api by adding/deleting field: <br/>
**add a new field** <br/>
**POST** <code>http://localhost:5486/api/?rescs=users</code>

    {
        "field": "nickname",
        "type": "String(164)"
    }

**add relationship(ex: users and posts resource)** <br/>
***one to many*** <br/>
POST <code>http://localhost:5486/api/?rescs=users</code>

    {
        "field": "posts",
        "type": "Set('Post')"
    }

***many to many*** <br/>
POST <code>http://localhost:5486/api/?rescs=users</code>

    {
        "field": "posts",
        "type": "Set('Post')"
    }

POST <code>http://localhost:5486/api/?rescs=posts</code>

    {
        "field": "users",
        "type": "Set('User')"
    }

***all field types:***

+ String(length)
+ Integer
+ Text
+ DateTime(default is utcnow)
+ Set

after launch the POST request, you need to migrate and upgrade your database to
the latest table structure.

    $ hack migrate

<hr>
## $ Notes
Currently, Hacks simply generate a **prototype api**, which means the api **did
not** have:

1. **authentication mechanism**
2. **relationship between each api resource**,
3. **rate limit**
4. **http caching**
5. **user side config**
6. **invoke your own code**

and obviously, it ***not ready to go into production***;
<hr/>
But, I will continue to feed more on Hacks, and finally let Hacks become a
**production-oriented**  but **deadly simple** restful api framework.

<hr>
## $ Todo
+ [x] integrated the [pony orm](https://github.com/ponyorm/pony)
+ [ ] build api resources relationship
+ [ ] configurations
    + [ ] restful api config
    + [ ] resource bp config

<hr>
## $ LICENSE
MIT, check LICENSE file for detail

Commit message:

update readme, complete features(except websocket)

readme.md, after:

# ```$_Hacks```
(still in development)
<hr>
dead simple but flexible restful api framework, <br/>
~~ for modern back-end web development of your dreams <br/>

## $ Features
### Restful api all the things !
1. [what is rest ?](http://www.restapitutorial.com/lessons/whatisrest.html)
2. **how hacks do ?** <br>
each time you run ***hack generate -api resources***, this is going to implement a full crud restful api for resources as well as search and pagination stuff!
thanks to [pony orm](https://github.com/ponyorm/pony) flexible [**Set** syntax](https://docs.ponyorm.com/relationships.html), you can easily add one-to-many(many-to-many) relationships and hacks will **automatically generate relationship apis between resources**!

### Real time back-end service via websocket

### Flexible api configuration
+ hacks automatically generate resources apis, but you can get complete control by editing apis configuration. you can decide which data **user should post from** or **return as json format**; you can also determine which api **user can access** and set up your own **authentication policy**!

### Hacking on top of flask
+ [flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) is a microframework for Python based on Werkzeug, Jinja 2 and good intentions. <br/>
well, hacks is built on top of flask! so feel free to use any great flask extensions !

### Great DRY idea
+ hacks based on [DRY idea](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself). Since I do not want repeat myself, and try to sum up python web development procedure, so hacks appeared!
+ not only that, hacks use the DRY idea for web development, hacks has several useful built-in decorators help you reduce duplication. yes, decorators is awesome!

### Convention over configuration

<hr>
## $ Get Start
### New a project
<code>$ hack new demo</code>

### Generate restful api
<code>$ hack generate -api users</code>

### Videos
+ [hacks framework](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aimpIJjk824)

<hr>
## $ Enjoy Your API:)
(example for users resource)
### Start

    $ hack boot

recommended [postman app](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/postman/fhbjgbiflinjbdggehcddcbncdddomop) do api development<br/>

### Read
**GET**

+ <code>http://localhost:5486/api/users/</code>
+ ```http://localhost:5486/api/users/<int:id>```

### Create
**POST** <code>http://localhost:5486/api/users/</code>

    {
        "name": "neo1218"
    }


### Update
**PATCH** ```http://localhost:5486/api/users/<int:id>/``` <br/>
***update a field:***

    { "name": "substack" }

### Delete
***delete a user*** <br/>
**DELETE** ```http://localhost:5486/api/users/<int:id>/``` <br/>

### Pagination
pagination setting at ```apis/configs/usersConfig.py``` <br/>
**GET** ```http://localhost:5486/api/users/?page=2```

### Search
**GET** ```http://localhost:5486/api/users/?<field1>=<value1>&<field2>=<field2>```

<hr>
## $ Hack Your API
you can custom your api by adding/deleting field: <br/>
**add a new field** <br/>
**POST** <code>http://localhost:5486/api/?rescs=users</code>

    {
        "field": "nickname",
        "type": "String(164)"
    }

**add relationship(ex: users and posts resource)** <br/>
***one to many*** <br/>
POST <code>http://localhost:5486/api/?rescs=users</code>

    {
        "field": "posts",
        "type": "Set('Post')"
    }

***many to many*** <br/>
POST <code>http://localhost:5486/api/?rescs=users</code>

    {
        "field": "posts",
        "type": "Set('Post')"
    }

POST <code>http://localhost:5486/api/?rescs=posts</code>

    {
        "field": "users",
        "type": "Set('User')"
    }

***all field types:***

+ String(length)
+ Integer
+ Text
+ DateTime(default is utcnow)
+ Set

after launch the POST request, you need to migrate and upgrade your database to
the latest table structure.

    $ hack migrate

<hr>
## $ Notes
Currently, Hacks simply generate a **prototype api**, which means the api **did
not** have:

1. **authentication mechanism**
2. **relationship between each api resource**,
3. **rate limit**
4. **http caching**
5. **user side config**
6. **invoke your own code**

and obviously, it ***not ready to go into production***;
<hr/>
But, I will continue to feed more on Hacks, and finally let Hacks become a
**production-oriented**  but **deadly simple** restful api framework.

<hr>
## $ Todo
+ [x] integrated the [pony orm](https://github.com/ponyorm/pony)
+ [ ] build api resources relationship
+ [ ] configurations
    + [ ] restful api config
    + [ ] resource bp config

<hr>
## $ LICENSE
MIT, check LICENSE file for detail
